.. include:: Running-Sims-Top-Template.rst

Setting up the manager configuration
====================================

All runtime configuration options for the manager are set in a file called
``${FS_DIR}/deploy/config_runtime.yaml``. In this guide, we will explain only the parts
of this file necessary for our purposes. You can find full descriptions of all of the
parameters in the :ref:`manager-configuration-files` section.

If you open up this file, you will see the following default config (assuming you have
not modified it)(note the ``default_platform`` value might be different):

.. include:: DOCS_EXAMPLE_config_runtime.yaml
    :code: yaml

We'll need to modify a couple of these lines.

First, let's tell the manager to use the single |fpga_type| FPGA. You'll notice that in
the ``run_farm`` mapping which describes and specifies the machines to run simulations
on. First notice that the ``base_recipe`` maps to
``run-farm-recipes/externally_provisioned.yaml``. This indicates to the FireSim manager
that the machines allocated to run simulations will be provided by the user through IP
addresses instead of automatically launched and allocated (e.g. launching instances
on-demand in AWS). Let's modify the ``default_platform`` to be |deploy_manager_code| so
that we can launch simulations using |runner|. Next, modify the
``default_simulation_dir`` to a directory that you want to store temporary simulation
collateral to. When running simulations, this directory is used to store any temporary
files that the simulator creates (e.g. a uartlog emitted by a Linux simulation). Next,
lets modify the ``run_farm_hosts_to_use`` mapping. This maps IP addresses (i.e.
``localhost``) to a description/specification of the simulation machine. In this case,
we have only one |fpga_type| FPGA so we will change the description of ``localhost`` to
``one_fpga_spec``.

Now, let's verify that the ``target_config`` mapping will model the correct target
design. By default, it is set to model a single-node with no network. It should look
like the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../deploy/sample-backup-configs/sample_config_runtime.yaml
    :language: scala
    :start-after: DOCREF START: target_config area
    :end-before: DOCREF END: target_config area

Note ``topology`` is set to ``no_net_config``, indicating that we do not want a network.
Then, ``no_net_num_nodes`` is set to ``1``, indicating that we only want to simulate one
node. Lastly, the ``default_hw_config`` is
``firesim_rocket_quadcore_no_nic_l2_llc4mb_ddr3``. Let's modify the
``default_hw_config`` (the target design) to "|hwdb_entry_name|". This new hardware
configuration does not have a NIC and is pre-built for the |fpga_type| FPGA. This
hardware configuration models a Single-core Rocket Chip SoC and **no** network interface
card.

We will leave the ``workload`` mapping unchanged here, since we do want to run the
buildroot-based Linux on our simulated system. The ``terminate_on_completion`` feature
is an advanced feature that you can learn more about in the
:ref:`manager-configuration-files` section.

As a final sanity check, in the mappings we changed, the ``config_runtime.yaml`` file
should now look like this (with ``PATH_TO_SIMULATION_AREA`` replaced with your
simulation collateral temporary directory):

.. code-block:: yaml
    :substitutions:

    run_farm:
      base_recipe: run-farm-recipes/externally_provisioned.yaml
      recipe_arg_overrides:
        default_platform: |deploy_manager|
        default_simulation_dir: <PATH_TO_SIMULATION_AREA>
        run_farm_hosts_to_use:
            - localhost: one_fpga_spec

    target_config:
        topology: no_net_config
        no_net_num_nodes: 1
        link_latency: 6405
        switching_latency: 10
        net_bandwidth: 200
        profile_interval: -1
        default_hw_config: |hwdb_entry_name|
        plusarg_passthrough: ""

    workload:
        workload_name: br-base-uniform.json
        terminate_on_completion: no
        suffix_tag: null

.. include:: Running-Sims-Bottom-Template.rst
