.. _firesim-basics:

FireSim Basics
==============

FireSim is an open-source FPGA-accelerated full-system hardware simulation platform that
makes it easy to validate, profile, and debug RTL hardware implementations at 10s to
100s of MHz. FireSim simplifies co-simulating ASIC RTL with cycle-accurate hardware and
software models for other system components (e.g. I/Os). FireSim can productively scale
from individual SoC simulations hosted on on-prem FPGAs (e.g., a single Xilinx Alveo
board attached to a desktop) to massive datacenter-scale simulations harnessing hundreds
of cloud FPGAs (e.g., on Amazon EC2 F1).

FireSim users across academia and industry (at 20+ institutions) have published over 40
papers using FireSim in many areas, including computer architecture, systems,
networking, security, scientific computing, circuits, design automation, and more (see
the `Publications page <https://fires.im/publications>`__ on the FireSim website to
learn more). FireSim has also been used in the development of commercially-available
silicon. FireSim was originally developed in the Electrical Engineering and Computer
Sciences Department at the University of California, Berkeley, but now has industrial
and academic contributors from all over the world.

This documentation will walk you through getting started with using FireSim on your
platform and also serves as a reference for more advanced FireSim features. For
higher-level technical discussion about FireSim, see the `FireSim website
<https://fires.im>`__.

Common FireSim usage models
---------------------------

Below are three common usage models for FireSim when paired with `Chipyard
<https://chipyard.readthedocs.io/>`__ (which provides the SoC design to run with
FireSim). The first two are the most common, while the third model is primarily for
those interested in warehouse-scale computer research. The getting started guides on
this documentation site will cover all three models.

1. Single-Node Simulations Using One or More On-Premises FPGAs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this usage model, FireSim allows for simulation of targets consisting of individual
SoC designs (e.g., those produced by `Chipyard <https://chipyard.readthedocs.io/>`__) at
150+ MHz running on on-premises FPGAs, such as those attached to your local desktop,
laptop, or cluster. Just like on the cloud, the FireSim manager can automatically
distribute and manage jobs on one or more on-premises FPGAs, including running complex
workloads like SPECInt2017 with full reference inputs.

2. Single-Node Simulations Using Cloud FPGAs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This usage model is similar to the previous on-premises case, but instead deploys
simulations on FPGAs attached to cloud instances, rather than requiring users to obtain
and set-up on-premises FPGAs. This allows for dynamically scaling the number of FPGAs
in-use to match workload requirements. For example, on AWS EC2 F1, it is just as cost
effective to run the 10 workloads in SPECInt2017 in parallel on 10 cloud FPGAs vs.
running them serially on one cloud FPGA.

.. note::

    All automation in FireSim works in both the on-premises and cloud usage models,
    which enables a **hybrid usage model** where early development happens on one (or a
    small cluster of) on-premises FPGA(s), while bursting to a large number of cloud
    FPGAs when a high degree of parallelism is necessary.

3. Datacenter/Cluster Simulations on On-Premises or Cloud FPGAs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this mode, FireSim also models a cycle-accurate network with parameterizeable
bandwidth, link latency, and configurable topology to accurately model current and
future datacenter-scale systems. For example, FireSim has been used to simulate 1024
quad-core RISC-V Rocket Chip-based nodes, interconnected by a 200 Gbps, 2us Ethernet
network. To learn more about this use case, see our `ISCA 2018 paper
<https://sagark.org/assets/pubs/firesim-isca2018.pdf>`__.

Other Use Cases
---------------

If you have other use-cases that we haven't covered, feel free to contact us!

Non-Chipyard-based target simulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While most users use FireSim with Chipyard, users can also use FireSim seperately from
Chipyard. For now the best example on how to do this is to follow along with how
Chipyard is setup with FireSim. Soon we will release a guide on how to use FireSim by
itself! Stay tuned!

Choose your platform to get started
-----------------------------------

FireSim supports many types of FPGAs and FPGA platforms! Click one of the following
links to work through the getting started guide for your particular platform.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/AWS-EC2-F1-Getting-Started/index`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-Alveo-U200-FPGAs`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-Alveo-U250-FPGAs`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-Alveo-U280-FPGAs`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-VCU118-FPGAs`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/RHS-Research-Nitefury-II-FPGAs`

  - Status: ✅ All FireSim Features Supported.

- :doc:`Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-Vitis-FPGAs`

  - Status: ⚠️ DMA-based Bridges Not Supported. The Vitis-based U250 flow is **not
    recommended** unless you have specific constraints that require using Vitis.
    Notably, the Vitis-based flow does not support DMA-based FireSim bridges (e.g.,
    TracerV, Synthesizable Printfs, etc.), while the XDMA-based flows support all
    FireSim features, as shown above. If you're unsure, use the XDMA-based U250 flow
    instead:
    :doc:`/Getting-Started-Guides/On-Premises-FPGA-Getting-Started/Xilinx-Alveo-U250-FPGAs`.
